Shell Weapon Choice: We chose a shell spinner mainly for its balance of offense and defense. It allows for 360-degree weapon coverage which protects the robot from any angle, while the comparatively large mass delivers strong kinetic energy transfer. Additionally the spinning shell provides gyroscopic stabilization, reducing the risk of flipping when taking hits from other robots.

Shuffler Drive Choice: The V1 design utilized two wheel drive with skids for stabilization, but during competition we encountered substantial issues with floor inconsistencies impacting the skid performance. For V2 we solved this by replacing the wheels with shuffler drive modules. This removes the need for skids as each shuffler module has at least two points of contact with the ground and there is an added benefit of a 1.5x weight bonus for "non-traditional locomotion".

Shuffle module design: Building a shuffler module is much more difficult than just mating a motor shaft to a wheel hub. We needed to design a cam shaft to convert the rotational motion from the motor into an oscillating walking motion while taking into account the desired speed and torque requirements. In the end, we decided on 4 feet for the combination of stability, smooth shuffling, and weight. We were also able to come up with a clever cam disc which could be used in all 4 positions to greatly simplify assembly.

Shell Manufacturing: One of the main reasons that shell spinners are not very common in combat robotics is that it can be very difficult and expensive to manufacture. Since we decided to build this robot after graduating, we no longer had access to Georgia Tech's manufacturing facilities or funds which magnified these issues. Our solution was to modify an existing object that was already shell-shaped: a car wheel. This not only provided us with a cost-effective weapon, but also clear design constraints since the chosen wheel had fixed dimensions and mass. All we needed to do was cut off some unnecessary sections on the top and bottom of the wheel and weld on pieces of square tubing to act as teeth for improved energy transfer.

Shell Power Transmission: Getting the shell to spin is also more complicated than standard weapon types. The large moment of inertia of the shell means that a very large gear reduction is required to achieve the necessary torque so a pulley drive system is not feasible due to the size of the pulley. Instead the shell needs to be directly driven from the inner surface since the small motor wheel driving the large shell naturally creates the required gear ratio. We created a motor calculation spreadsheet to select a high-power brushless motor with optimal torque and speed characteristics and attached a soft durometer polyurethane wheel to the rotor. The softness of the drive wheel both improves the power transmission efficiency from the motor to the shell and also acts as shock absorption to protect the motor when dealing hits. The shell is supported by a tapered roller bearing spinning on a dead shaft at the axis of rotation and idler roller assemblies around the inner circumference of the shell. The drive motor and roller assemblies are all mounted on slots so they can be adjusted for proper contact.